Throughout the duration of this project, I contributed to SCK Finance predominantly through optimizing the front-end in various ways. I was able to apply my past Angular experience I developed during my previous co-ops. The task of building an application from the ground up was certainly new to me; in my past experiences I had only made additions/optimizations to already existing components, whereas in this project, many components needed to be created from scratch. Nick carried the weight with establishing a framework of financial widgets that interact together to deliver solutions to its users, and I worked to improve usability and give a more polished feel where I could. For example, I worked to refactor the application from separate pages into one dashboard. I also spent time developing a toggleable display theme. This was something I worked on early in the project, and because the pages ended up refactored, this feature was no longer supported. But I learned the basics CSS and Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets along the way, which I then applied to make various other changes. Some of these changes include styling the portfolio graph component, styling the landing page, and populating it with helpful introductory information/graphics. Finally, I dedicated some time to creating a Help feature, which provides the user with information and graphics pertaining to the functionality of each widget. 

After reviewing my intial assessment in the fall, I think I upheld what I mentioned regarding my Angular experience. Like I mentioned above, I had experience with creating additions, fixes, and optimizations to an already existing framework, but lacked experience in initializing new components from the ground up. This project challenged me because I often ran into many issues whenever I tried to create a new component, and Nick was able to often able to step in and help with that process. I learned that I need to be realistic with my expectations in developing new features and functionality. I did not forsee anywhere close to the amount of issues that I ended up facing along the way, but with that came the development of my troublshooting skills. I also learned a lot about web page styling and how the different elements can inherit and establish styles. I grew comfortable with the webpage debugging tools and by the end of the project, I feel much more capable of assigning consistent styles through ID and class inheritance. Finally, I would say that I learned a lot about the backend and how information is delivered to the frontend via the API. This was not something I had experience in previously, and although Nick was the one who took care of this side of the development, he was able to help me understand its interworkings and I'm appreciative of the insights I now have towards API functionality.
