Individually, I contributed to the project by developing the majority of the application. I initially developed the backend which served as the “core” of our application to handle requests from the frontend. I also put together a large part of the frontend of the application, which is how a normal user would interact with our project. Through doing all of this work, I learned a lot about how to connect the frontend to the backend, how to efficiently/intelligently store/cache information, and mainly how to take a project from an idea to a final working product.
    
Working on this project taught me a lot about several different areas of software engineering and I feel like I was able to learn a lot through all of the work I did. I was able to improve my frontend development skills and actually understand what is happening now. Outside of the actual technical aspect of the project, I was also responsible for organizing assignments, making sure we were on track with deadlines, and just the overall administrative tasks. We certainly faced some obstacles through the course of working on this project, the main one simply being time. Having to balance working on this project in addition to being in other courses was a struggle at times and required putting in extra work and reminding other group members that we need to stay on track if we want to finish. Other than the time constraint, another challenge we had was simply learning what we need to know to do the project. I was very unfamiliar with Angular/any frontend development really, and for me I had to put in a lot of time upfront in order to be able to successfully and efficiently contribute to that aspect of the project.
