# Individual Capstone Assessment – Ben Swanson

## Introduction
Throughout my time at the University of Cincinnati, I have pursued many classes and co-ops that will contribute to the Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science that I am on track to receive this May. Each of these classes provided me with more knowledge that helped shape my skillset that can be used anywhere in the Computer Science field. Each of my co-ops equipped me with real skills needed to be successful in the Computer Science field directly at a work place. Now, as I pursue the senior design project in my final year, I am equipped to tackle the many challenges that will come with creating a data-analytics-driven financial advising web application. This project will require work in several key components—the front-end/UI/UX, the back-end logic, and the database that is connected/will give life to the application. I am equipped to help develop each of the key components for this web application project because of the academics and experiences I have pursued throughout my college career.

## Coursework
The back-end components of this project are going to require many of the skills I have built within my coursework. An example of this would firstly include the necessary object-oriented programming and data structures to effectively allow the web application to serve its purpose. Additionally, differing algorithms will be need to be selected and utilized to make the application more efficient. Finally, surrounding the data that will be used in this project, a database will need to be created and organized. I have the skills to contribute in this from taking the database design class last year. This data will also need to be analyzed using a number of different algorithms in which I’ll know how to utilize from the information I gathered in my Intelligent Data Analysis class.

## Co-op
The experience needed for developing the front-end components of this web application hasn’t come from many classes that I’ve taken. I have had many chances to learn about this outside of my coursework, namely my recent co-op where I am working as a front-end developer on a property management SaaS application. Here at this co-op, I was a front-end developer and made additions to the property management web application. The framework used for this application is Angular. This required me to learn Typescript along with the web design essentials; HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. All in all, many of the skills that I built upon as I worked at this co-op can be directly applied to the web application we are seeking to create for this senior design project. It is worth mentioning that I also have basic web design experience from previous working experiences as well, but not nearly as much came from those jobs as my recent front-end development job.


## Project Motivation
I am motivated to participate in this project because it will be an opportunity to truly create a SaaS application from the ground up. While I have partaken in many past development jobs, none of them went through all of the stages of development from start to finish. This project will be more rewarding than anything I’ve completed thus far because of it’s entire development process that is needed. I am also excited to do this project effectively well because it will be the biggest step before I can achieve my Bachelor’s in Computer Science. Completing this application will be one of the biggest tests of being able to get a degree and move on to the real world. I am ready to tackle whatever challenges my team and I will face in order to finish it.


## Project Approach
Since the goal of this project is to provide the web application users with sound financial advise, the solution to achieve this goal is to analyze data effectively and draw helpful conclusions. We plan to use data from many past years of investing information for the economy overall, individual stocks, and cryptocurrencies. We will then be exploring many combinations of data analysis algorithms to draw helpful conclusions from the existing trends in the data. These conclusions will then be used to generate financial advising information for the end user, who can then utilize the application’s information to draw profits from investments. Since we are trying to tackle a problem that deals with unpredictable information, the advising will obviously not be perfect; the goal is to mitigate the conclusions that lead to a loss on the investment, and capitalize on the investments that profit. I will self-evaluate my contributions by proactively determining if the work I’ve done is putting our team ahead or behind our development schedule. Based off this evaluation, I will have a better of idea of when I need to ramp up my development output, and when I am doing a satisfactory job.
