# Assignment 3 - Individual Capstone Assessment

## Introduction
For our senior design project, we have chosen to develop a web application that aims to provide users with the ability to better manage their finances and improve their knowledge of investments. Our main goal is to make personal finance and investing more accessible and transparent to regular, everyday people, who may feel intimidated by the vast amount of information that is out there already. From my perspective, I would like to use this project as a means to gain experience taking the lead on a project and being responsible for its development from its inception to the point where it is usable. I'd like to take this opportunity to try and write good requirements that will hopefully help guide this project throughout its development. From an academic perspective, this project will hopefully encapsulate the main principals of Software Engineering and utilize them in order to develop a great product.
Many of the courses and ideas that we have learned throughout our Computer Science coursework and co-op experiences will hopefully guide this project to success.

## Coursework
I believe many of the courses that I have taken throughout the course of my college career will greatly benefit our team. Particularly I think that Requirements Engineering (CS5127) will prove to be an extremely helpful course. I think that using knowledge from this course early on in the lifecycle of our project will provide us with great benefits later down the line during development. This course focuses on how to write clear, concise requirments, and the importance of doing so. Another course that I believe will have a large impact on the project is Software Engineering (EECE3093C).This course taught the main principals and paradigms used in software engineering and gave a lot of valuable insight into the Software Development Lifecycle. I believe that this course will help in providing a much higher level overview of the entire process and allow me to see the bigger picture when it comes our projects organization.

## Co-op 
Through my co-op experiences that I was able to complete throughout the last 5 years, I have gained numerous skills and a vast amount of knowledge that simply would not have been possible through just my classroom experience. I've complete 5 co-op rotations, 1 at the Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center (CCHMC) (Software Development Co-op) and 4 at Siemens Digital Industries (QA Co-op and Software Engineering Co-op). My first co-op at CCHMC taught me a lot about working on a team where each member had a very diverse and different set of skills from my own. This allowed to me to develop my communication skills as I had to communicate requirements and information to team members who may not have had a Computer Science/technical background. My next 4 co-ops were all at Siemens Digital Industries. My first rotation at Siemens I worked in quality assurance (QA). This exposed me to the vast amount of testing that exists, and its importance when working on software at such a large scale. Then for my last 3 co-ops I worked as a Software Engineer. Throught my time as a Software Engineer, I was able to gain experience working throughout all phases of the Software Development Lifecycle. I gained experience writing requirments and design documentation for projects, as well as then taking this documents and implementing the functionality. From a technical standpoint, most of my work was done in C/C++, which help solidify that skill. I believe that everything I learned through my co-ops will help to improve the quality of our project and make the best decisions for our team.

## Project Motivation
The motivation behind our project is to provide users with a tool they can use to improve their knowledge and ability to make investments and be financially secure. There seems to be a surprising lack of knowledge when it comes to investing and understanding what that means. Our project aims to eliminate that by giving users an easy to use application that they can use to track, gain insight, and learn about investing. In addition to all of this, I am looking forward to using data analytics in order to try and understand trends and make predictions about future behaviors of the investments that users may be interested in. I am excited to use all the knowledge and skills that I have learned throughout the last 5 years, as well as learning several new ones. Overall the goal of our project is make investing more accessible to everyone.

## Project Approach
Our project is going to take the form of a web application. First we need to identify the main goals of the project; what challenges are our users currently facing, how can we solve these problems, how can we help them? Then after we have identified these items, we can begin to write requirements for our project. Using these requirments we can then begin to design the system and application that we will need to develop. To me, the deliverable of this project will be the application and if it is done or not will be based on whether or not it successfully address the challenges/problems we identified. This should be able to be easily done by using the requirments we write in the early planning phases of the project. In order to track the quality/quantity of mine and my group members contributions, since we are using GitHub, we can track the work of each team member. I personally plan to commit a certain amount of time each week to working on the project and ensuring that I am putting my best work towards it.