# Assignment 7 - Major Project Constraints
## Time
The largest constraint that will impact the development of our project is time. Each component of the web application will take a considerable amount of work to develop from scratch. The framework for the front-end UI, the functionality of the back-end, and the database architecture all need to be completely developed before the end of the spring semester. By the project’s due date, there will certainly be additions and improvements that will not be able to be added because there is simply not enough time. Another limiting factor surrounding time constraints is the fact that this application will depend on data analytics. With more time, more data points can be used and analyzed in order to create a more effective trend. Since time is limited in this project, the trends’ effectiveness will also be limited.
## Scope
While our team has agreed upon the scope at this time, issues with this constraint may arise further into the project’s development. As more progress is made towards the project, certain issues or challenges may arise. These could cause the scope of the project to expand. With an expanded scope, developing certain aspects of the project may not remain a priority. The larger the scope, the better the user experience and application functionality will be, but more resources will be required to develop the application. It will be important to be mindful of the ways that a large scope could limit the application’s development. 
## Professional/Technical Expertise
While we have had many opportunities to build up our development skill set, this project is going to reinforce our programming skills and build new ones. We are all working with something new and are eager to further develop our technical expertise. Since we are working in unfamiliar territory, research and investigation will be necessary. This will limit how much development can take place. The expertise we need for this project is familiarity with setting up and connecting with APIs, data retrieval, understanding stock trends and making predictions, and general financial expertise. The more time we spend researching and learning more about these areas of expertise, the more our project’s development will be limited.